# macroeconomic-forecasts

forecasting of macro economic variables percentage of increase/decrease given data from the SPF (Survey of Professional forecasters) https://www.philadelphiafed.org/research-and-data/real-time-center/survey-of-professional-forecasters

Implementation of Crowd layer by Filipe Rodriguez (http://fprodrigues.com/publications/deep-crowds/).

Given the state of the art results on macro-economic indicator forecasting previously presented by Cook and Hall (Cook, T. R., Smalter Hall, A., et al. (2017). Macroeconomic indicator forecasting with deep neural networks.), a Neural Network was implemented as an alternative model with the same objective as to accurately forecast the 7 previously chosen macro-economic indicators Gross National Product, Gross National Production, Real Gross National Product, Corporate Profit After Tax, Civilian Unemployment Rate, Industrial Product Index and Housing Starts for the next 4 time horizons.

Following the same data pre-processing techniques previously presented, the raw data was standardised as to deal with percentage of increase/decrease over the previous ground truth values of the macro-economic indicators. Outlier elimination was also performed to remove specific adjustment changes made to the indicator values made by the SPF in certain years that represent false outlier signals to the model. Once the data was pre-processed, the model was trained on 90% of the data available, of which 2% was used for validation during training, and later tested on the remaining 10% of the data.

The Neural Network was trained on different types of input data: individual predictions of the experts as features for each time instance, previously generated set of features, for each time instance, and previous quarter ground truth values of the 7 macro-economic indicators. The accuracy of the model was tested against the ground truth value for each macro-economic indicator for each of the 4 time horizons. Due to the nature of the raw data, the approach presented by Filipe Rodriguez on using deep learning models on crowd sourced data for regression tasks, and specifically the use of the proposed “Crowd Layer” was implemented to test its accuracy and performance. In this approach, a new layer is connected to the output layer of the neural network in the training process. This layer takes into account the individual predictions made by the experts for the given time instance, and back-propagates them to the bottleneck layer. In this way, the gradient vector at the bottleneck layer becomes a weighted sum of gradients according to the predictions of the different experts.

After experimenting with different fully connected architectures, the architecture used was a Neural Network with 4 fully connected layers, the first layer with 3 activation units, second layer with 7 activation units, third layer with 3 activation units, output layer with one activation unit. The Relu function was used as the activation function for the first 3 layers, and a linear activation function was used in the output layer. The model was implemented in python using the KERAS API.
